README.md, before:

# Expression and SNPs to clinic
Smooth transition of called variants from RNAseq/DNAseq and expression to the clinic. 

## Contributors 
- Yue Yang - Lead 
- Annie Nadkarni - Writer, Tech support 
- Poojalakshmi Sreedhar - Liaison 
- ChunHsuan LO - Writer, Tech support 
- David Enoma - Tech support 
- Alex Guo - SysAdmin

## Goal 
Our goal is to calculate disease-specific patient-level PRS based on GWAS summary statistics for different disease. 

## Introduction 
- Input preparation:
  Select traits & Download GWAS ssumary statistics from GWAS catlog (prepare GWAS summary statistics to be in the same form)
  Prepare UKB synthetic genotype/ phenotype data

- (Individual-level) Compute PRS:
	  Compute PRS based on various p-value thresholds and GWAS summary statistics

- (Cohort-level) Build predictive models:
    Build a predictive model using generated PRS scores on UKB synthetic data

## Methods
-Input:
  GWAS summary statistics
  Genotype data
  Phenotype

-We identified synthetic UK Biobank data as Genotype/ Phenotype data input.

-Output: 
  Patient-level: 
    PRS scores
  Cohort-level:
    Predictive model
    Some visualizations

### Phenotype Prediction Model
Outputs the probability of an individual being affected by the disease. Trained by the cohort PRS scores and phenotype values from the UKB synthetic data. The base estimator is a random forest classifier.

## Installation 
- Please git from the following url: https://github.com/collaborativebioinformatics/PRS_reporting

## Flowchart
<img width="448" alt="flowchart" src="https://github.com/collaborativebioinformatics/PRS_reporting/raw/main/work_flowchart.jpg">
(for the working pipelines)

## Results 

## notes
-Feedback from UX team
  What is the model output?  Related likelihood? Some more clear output information(scores, images, pdf)
  How are these information given to the other team?(database) database, model
  How do we associate the phenotype and PRS? (can customize it based on gene information, probability for other disease, sample selection for clinical trials), Link to our github. build predictive models


## References 

- Data source: https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk/
- GATK Best Practices: https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/sections/360007226651-Best-Practices-Workflows 
- DSeq2: https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/DESeq2.html 
- DNANexus documentation: https://documentation.dnanexus.com/developer/apps/execution-environment/connecting-to-jobs

Commit message:

Updated README based on current progress 06/03/2021

README.md, after:

# Expression and SNPs to clinic
Smooth transition of called variants from RNAseq/DNAseq and expression to the clinic. 

## Contributors 
- Yue Yang - Lead 
- Annie Nadkarni - Writer, Tech support 
- Poojalakshmi Sreedhar - Liaison 
- ChunHsuan LO - Writer, Tech support 
- David Enoma - Tech support 
- Alex Guo - SysAdmin

## Goal 
Our goal is to calculate disease-specific patient-level PRS based on GWAS summary statistics for different disease. 

## Introduction 
- Input preparation:
  Select traits & Download GWAS ssumary statistics from GWAS catlog (prepare GWAS summary statistics to be in the same form)
  Prepare UKB synthetic genotype/ phenotype data

- (Individual-level) Compute PRS:
	  Compute PRS based on various p-value thresholds and GWAS summary statistics

- (Cohort-level) Build predictive models:
    Build a predictive model using generated PRS scores on UKB synthetic data

## Methods
-Input:
  GWAS summary statistics
  Genotype data
  Phenotype

-We identified synthetic UK Biobank data as Genotype/ Phenotype data input.

-Output: 
  Patient-level: 
    PRS scores
  Cohort-level:
    Predictive model
    Some visualizations
    
### PRS Scores
Calculates the PRS scores based on the disease-relevant variants called in the genotype data and GWAS summary statistics. Due to the existence of various GWAS studies, one input subject would be assigned multiple PRS scores.

### Phenotype Prediction Model
Outputs the probability of an individual being affected by the disease based on their PRS scores, as well as the impurity-based feature (each PRS score) importances to the prediction. Trained by the cohort PRS scores and phenotype values from the UKB synthetic data. The base estimator is a random forest classifier.

## Installation 
- Please git from the following url: https://github.com/collaborativebioinformatics/PRS_reporting

## Flowchart
<img width="448" alt="flowchart" src="https://github.com/collaborativebioinformatics/PRS_reporting/raw/main/work_flowchart.jpg">
(for the working pipelines)

## Results 

## notes
-Feedback from UX team
  What is the model output?  Related likelihood? Some more clear output information(scores, images, pdf)
  How are these information given to the other team?(database) database, model
  How do we associate the phenotype and PRS? (can customize it based on gene information, probability for other disease, sample selection for clinical trials), Link to our github. build predictive models


## References 

- Data source: https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk/
- GATK Best Practices: https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/sections/360007226651-Best-Practices-Workflows 
- DSeq2: https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/DESeq2.html 
- DNANexus documentation: https://documentation.dnanexus.com/developer/apps/execution-environment/connecting-to-jobs
